---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

My name is Christian Groll and I am Head of Quantitative Investment
Strategy at Scalable Capital.

Through experience we learn, and quantitative data analysis is a way
to exploit this to the fullest. Overestimation, overconfidence, bias -
there are many human traits that can get in the way of optimal
decision making. Using a rigorous quantitative modeling approach
reduces these deficiencies and puts decision making into a testable
and verifiable framework - a prerequisite to evaluate success. In such
a quantitative environment data can optimally be put to use. With the
right tools, data reveals insights that go far beyond the history and
experiences of a single person.

This is what I am passionate about, and also what I am working on. At
Scalable Capital I am part of a team that writes the algorithm that
automatically monitors and actively re-balances client portfolios with
regards to aspects of risk.

My enthusiasm for financial modeling goes back many years. I graduated
in financial mathematics before I became a research assistant at the
statistics department of Ludwig-Maximilians University (LMU). During
that time I was involved in several research projects, for instance
modeling of market risk, fixed-income securities, options,
commodities, variable annuities and failure rates of wind parks.
Besides, I wrote my doctoral thesis about "Dynamic Risk Management of
Multi-asset Portfolios" at the chair of financial econometrics. My
goal has always been to achieve a holistic view on financial markets,
and to build a strong understanding about statistical methodologies. I
am convinced that the best way of getting there is through active
engagement with real data. For this I can draw on a wide set of tools:
numerical computing languages (Matlab, Python, Julia and R), software
development concepts (git, unit testing), and data visualization and
presentation tools (D3.js, reveal.js).